.TH I2C-DISPLAYD 1 "February 2026" "i2c-display 0.5.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
i2c\-displayd \- I2C display controller for single board computers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i2c\-displayd
[\fB\-config\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-mock\fR]
[\fB\-validate\-config\fR]
[\fB\-test\-display\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i2c\-displayd
drives small OLED and TFT displays attached to single board computers
(Raspberry Pi, Rock 3C, etc.) over I2C or SPI.
It shows rotating pages of system statistics (disk, RAM, CPU temperature)
and network interface information.
.PP
Supported display types include SSD1306 (I2C), ST7735 (SPI), and
UCTRONICS colour displays (I2C bridge).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-config " path"
Path to a JSON configuration file.
If not specified, the daemon searches for configuration in
.IR /etc/i2c-display/config.json ,
then falls back to built\-in defaults.
.TP
.B \-mock
Use a mock display for testing without hardware.
.TP
.B \-validate\-config
Validate the configuration file and exit.
Returns exit code 0 if valid, non\-zero otherwise.
.TP
.B \-test\-display
Run a hardware test pattern on the display and exit.
Cycles through solid white, border rectangle, diagonal lines,
text rendering, and clear.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/i2c-display/config.json
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/i2c-display.service
Systemd service unit file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful operation (or valid configuration with \fB\-validate\-config\fR).
.TP
.B non\-zero
An error occurred during startup or configuration validation.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with a specific configuration file:
.PP
.nf
i2c\-displayd \-config /etc/i2c\-display/config.json
.fi
.PP
Test display hardware:
.PP
.nf
i2c\-displayd \-config /etc/i2c\-display/config.json \-test\-display
.fi
.PP
Validate configuration without starting the daemon:
.PP
.nf
i2c\-displayd \-config /etc/i2c\-display/config.json \-validate\-config
.fi
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload configuration file without restarting the daemon.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Wake the display immediately if the screen saver is active.
The display remains on for the configured
.I wake_duration
(default 30 seconds) before returning to normal screen saver behaviour.
Equivalent to
.BR "curl -X POST http://localhost:9090/wake"
when the metrics server is enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/ausil/i2c\-display/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Dennis Gilmore <dennis@ausil.us>
